a black hole with a boarding pass and
seat on a plane a window seat a place
where you'll have to shadows and bad
news for Orion the constellation these
are some of the freshest space facts we
only recently discovered one more planet
potentially bigger than Earth is out
there far beyond Neptune's orbit we know
which direction to point our telescopes
at but the area is so big it makes the
search long and difficult potentially
any day can bring the discovery in April
2020 comet will fly near the Sun and
become visible in the night sky a little
to the right and up from the Big Dipper
the gaya mission has been working on
making a 3d model of our galaxy and
getting a more accurate count of the
numbers of stars in it they thought it
was 1 billion but that estimate could be
up to over 400 to even 700 billion stars
think of that massive number this way a
stack of 500 billion pennies would reach
the moon and back freshly discovered
planet kepler-16b
spins around 2 Suns so your shadow will
always have a companion Jupiter is
bigger than all the other planets of the
solar system combined and you've
probably heard that it's great red spot
can fit 3 Earth's across it well the
massive storm is getting smaller faster
than we thought it would now only fit
one earth astronomers have no idea why
it shrunk to less than half the size it
was a century ago
NASA's Artemis program plans to send a
crewed mission to the moon in 2024 only
this time they want to build the first
human base once we set up camp on our
satellite we'll be that much closer to
launching the Mars that's why the curved
line in the program's logo is red the
largest optical telescope ever is
currently being built in Chile the ELT
extremely large telescope it'll be twice
the size of the Roman Colosseum with
optics more powerful and clearer than
all the other massive telescopes on this
planet combined the coolest part it'll
help us find possibly earth-like planets
orbiting other stars
fast is the biggest single dish radio
telescope in the world that became fully
operational two years ago this humongous
dish could fit Grand Central Station on
it thanks to its size it can pick up the
famous whispers from the cosmos like
those coming from spinning neutron stars
light-years away
an unusual flying telescope Sofia tells
us a lot about the planets orbiting
other stars and it's on a Boeing 747
this aerial observatory can even be
tracked on flight radar the launch of
the James Webb Space Telescope has seen
delay after delay for over a decade now
but set your calendar for 2021 if all
goes according to plan will potentially
find light from the very first stars and
galaxies that ever form nASA says it'll
be the largest telescope in space and
100 times more powerful than the Hubble
fast radio bursts are big yet still
unexplained bada-boom somewhere in space
that we pick up only long after they
occur because sound takes a while to get
to us when it comes from alight years
away within milliseconds a star spills
more energy than our Sun does in a
million years later we pick up the radio
signals from such events and we caught a
repeating one for the first time in 2019
a space probe called Parker was launched
toward our own star in 2018 it recently
broke the record for the closest
approach of a human-made object to the
Sun and it'll keep breaking its own
record as it continues its journey to
study our star up close the probe is
named after eugene newman parker the
scientists who contributed so much to
our knowledge about solar wind
bepi Colombo's mission to mercury will
hopefully arrive in 2025 it'll study the
solar system's first planet and its
interaction with solar winds launched in
October 2018 the satellite was planned
to make one flyby near Earth two near
Venus and six near mercury the part
Bethy in the missions name commemorates
an italian scientist who came up with
the idea of gravitational assist using
something big in space to move faster or
slower the next Mars rover perseverance
recently got its wheels and brakes
mounted and NASA's Curiosity rover
celebrated its eighth birthday on Mars
or would it be a birth Sol since a day
is called a Sol on Mars anyway after a
long 253 day interplanetary journey
curiosity landed on the red planet in
2012 and is still moving around and
studying the conditions a Kuiper belt
object called Eric Hoff became the
farthest visited object in the solar
system a rendezvous with New Horizons
happened four billion miles from Earth
as 43 times the distance between our
planet and the Sun
the same probe discovered mountains on
Pluto and made us suspect that mercury
is still geologically active a
spacecraft launched 43 years ago Voyager
2 has finally left the heliosphere
that's the bubble of magnetic fields and
particles created by our Sun leaving it
means the probe has entered interstellar
space being only the second spacecraft
to do so Voyager 2 started off before
Voyager 1 because it aims for a much
longer journey a billion light-years
away
sits a supermassive black hole first
detected in 2015 it gave us the evidence
of gravitational waves something
Einstein theorized about a century ago
back in 1916 these waves are like
ripples on a pond surface only that pond
is space time in scientific news that
broke the internet we finally got an
image of a black hole in 2019 but the
picture we all saw isn't a photograph
it's a colorized image of the black
hole's silhouette the data was taken by
radio telescopes on all continents
including Antarctica over a seven-year
period the amount of data received was
so massive the hard drives had to be
physically moved versus being sent over
the web jumbo jets did the job so turns
out a black hole was riding on an
airplane did he have to go through
security
last year we discovered the biggest
black hole we know of for now a neutron
star with an estimated mass of 40
billion suns that's the weight of one
penny compared to two Titanic's the
fastest moving star record was broken
our Sun moves around the center of the
galaxy at a speed of 143 miles per
second but one special star was clocked
going 745 apparently it was twirling
around with another star when that one
exploded into a supernova left without
this tether this speedy star went
slingshotting through the galaxy is
actually going fast enough
leave the Milky Way and head into
intergalactic space bye-bye
we also registered the fastest planet
traveling around its star imagine a
world where one year lasts only 18 hours
yeah that two-week vacation of yours
would equal just 40 earth minutes count
me out
the first interstellar comet was
discovered in 2019 comet Borissov
entered our solar system flew past our
Sun and is currently making its exit its
trajectory took it between the orbits of
Mars and Jupiter our very first
interstellar guest asteroid Oh mwah mwah
was also seen recently in 2017 we
thought it was an icy comet at first
turns out it's more like a huge piece of
rock the only astronomical event you can
witness with your bare eye is Betelgeuse
changing its brightness when it got
pretty dim in 2019 astronomers knew what
was coming the star will soon explode
into a supernova and the Orion
constellation will lose a shoulder the
show will be visible from Earth and
shine like the moon at night for at
least three months it could happen any
day now in the next 100,000 years you
should pack a big lunch